------------------------------------------------------------------------
		     QSlim Surface Simplification
			     Version 2.1
			     July 4, 2004

		 Michael Garland <garland@uiuc.edu>


 Copyright (C) 1998-2002 Michael Garland.  See "COPYING.txt" for details.


 For the latest version and up-to-date information, please visit
 http://www.uiuc.edu/~garland/software/qslim.html


 Michael Garland
 Department of Computer Science
 University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign
 201 North Goodwin Avenue
 Urbana, IL 61801

------------------------------------------------------------------------


This is version 2.1 of my QSlim surface simplification package.  The
underlying simplification algorithm should perform essentially the same as
version 2.0.  However, various features (particularly the GUI) have been
updated and some bugs have been fixed.  This software package has now been
fairly stable for over a year.  Consequently, this is likely the last release
of the QSlim software.

RUNNING QSLIM
-------------

The standard QSlim executable is a non-interactive program called
'qslim' which you invoke using a command of the form:

	qslim <options> <filename>

This will input the initial model from the specified file and simplify
it.  When simplification is complete, it will output the resulting
model and report to you how long the process took.

The command line options recognized by QSlim are:


  Controlling output:

	-t <n>

		Specify the desired number of faces in the simplified
		model.  You are not guaranteed to get exactly the
		number you ask for, but it should generally be within
		1-2 faces of the target.

	-o <file>

		Output resulting model to the named file.  By default,
		the simplified model is sent to standard output.

	-M <format>

		Select the format for the output model.  The supported
		formats are:

		   smf -- This is the default format
		   iv  -- Inventor format (preliminary support only)
		   vrml -- VRML 1.0 format (preliminary support only)

		   pm, mmf, log -- These are formats which I developed
		   for experimenting with multiresolution
		   representations.  They're not documented because
		   they're not well supported and I may substantially
		   alter the format of these files in the future.

	-q

		Run quietly.  QSlim will not output the usual status
		information.


  Customizing simplification:

	-O <n>

		Specify the policy for selecting the target position
		for edge contractions.  The following levels of
		optimization are available:

			3 -- Pick point which minimizes error [default].
			2 -- Pick best point along edge.
			1 -- Pick best of endpoints or midpoint.
			0 -- Pick best of the two endpoints.

	-B <weight>

		Specifies the weight assigned to boundary constraint
		planes.  The default value is currently 1000.  Specify
		a weight of 0 to disable boundary constraints entirely.

	-W <n>

		Select the quadric weighting policy.  Available policies
		are:

			0 -- Weight all quadrics uniformly
			1 -- Weight by area of contributing triangle [default]
			2 -- Weight by angle around vertex


  Miscellaneous features:

	-r

		Enable history recording.  This is not terribly useful
		in the command-line version.  However, in the
		interactive version (see below) this will enable you
		to simplify a model and then back up to a previous
		level of detail.  NOTE:  This will cause the program
		to use more memory.

	-j

		Only perform contractions that do not remove any
		faces.  You can use this feature in conjunction with
		custom edge sets (see below) to effect a form of
		stitching.  This is not terribly reliable, it's just
		an experimental feature.

	-F

		This will cause the simplification algorithm to use
		iterative face contraction rather than iterative edge
		contraction.  Generally speaking, this has the
		following effects:

			- Simplification is faster
			- Less memory is consumed
			- Geometric quality of the results is reduced


	-I <file>

		Include a script file.  I've been toying around with
		adding some simple scripting support to QSlim using
		the MxAsp MixKit package.  Currently, there is nothing
		useful to do with this, but there may be in the
		future.


RUNNING QVIS
------------

Use the mouse to control the position of the model/camera.

    Left button:    spins the model
    Right button:   moves the camera in and out
    Middle button:  moves the camera in the image plane

Use the menu bar to simplify the model, snapshot pictures of it, and control
the rendering style.  You can also use the slider bar at the bottom of the
window to simplify the model.

NOTE: Drawing quadrics can really slow things down on lower-end
machines.


SPECIFYING EDGE SETS
--------------------

In normal operation, the simplification algorithm collects together
all the edges of the model and it iteratively selects the best edge to
contract from amongst this set.  However, you can select your own set
of edges.  Simply add lines of the form:

	e <v1> <v2>

To the input data.  Each 'e' command will specify that the pair v1,v2
should be considered as an edge for simplification.  Aside from the
edges you specify, no other edges will be considered.

One sample use of this feature is to restrict to set of edges the
algorithm considers.

A more interesting application is to list all the edges of the model
and then include a set of non-edge pairs or virtual edges.  QSlim 1.0
allowed you to specify a distance threshold which would be used in
automatically selecting a set of non-edge pairs to be considered
during simplification.  The primary reason for this functionality was
to allow separate components of the model to be aggregated together.
Support for such virtual edges is no longer directly a part of QSlim.
Instead, you can specify any arbitrary set of vertex pairs you like.


SUPPORT FOR SURFACE ATTRIBUTES
------------------------------

I have extended the fundamental quadric simplification algorithm to
support surfaces with vertex attributes (e.g., RGB color, texture
coordinates).  Support for this algorithm is provided by the
MxPropSlim MixKit module.

Attribute simplification has not yet been incorporated directly into
the main QSlim executable.  However, in the '../../examples' directory
you will find the 'propslim' program which provides a very simple
front-end interface.
